This section includes basic introduction to Java packaging world to people
coming from different backgrounds. Goal is to understand language of all groups
involved. If you are a Java developer coming into contact with RPM packaging for
the first time start reading xref:XFor_Devs[Java developer] section. On the
other hand if you are coming from RPM packaging background an
xref:XFor_Packagers[introduction to Java world] is probably a better starting
point.

It should be noted that especially in this section we might sacrifice
correctness for simplicity

[[XFor_Packagers]]
=== For Packagers
Java is a programming language which is usually compiled into bytecode for JVM
(Java Virtual Machine). For more details about the JVM and bytecode
specification see
link:http://docs.oracle.com/javase/specs/jvms/se7/html/index.html[JVM
documentation]. Resulting bytecode is then assembled into zip files with
specific layout and additional metadata. Most commonly these special zip files
have `.jar` suffix, but other variations exist. These files have their format
specified in the
link:http://docs.oracle.com/javase/7/docs/technotes/guides/jar/jar.html[JAR File
Specification].

Classic compiled applications use linker to find dependencies (linked
libraries), Python interpreter has predefined directories where it searches for
imported modules. JVM itself has no embedded knowledge of installation paths and
thus no automatic way to resolve dependencies of Java projects. This means that
all Java applications have to use wrapper shell scripts to setup the environment
before invoking the JVM and running the application itself.
// JVM, classpaths, imports, POM files, JAR files


[[XFor_Devs]]
=== For Java Developers
Developers!
